.Dd June 25, 2021
.Dt LEDGER 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ledger
.Nd transaction file
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
A ledger transaction file is a list of transactions separated by at-least one
blank line. Each transactions consists of a date, payee, and two or more
postings. A posting is an indented line, consisting of an account, and
optionally, a value. Only one posting can be without value a value for each
transaction. The blank value posting receives the negated sum of all other
postings in the transaction.
.Pp
A single space is used as a delimeter between date and payee. Payee is the rest
of the transaction header line and can contain spaces.
Comments begin with ";" and continue for the rest of the line. Comments on
their own line attach to the next transaction in the file.
.Pp
Posting lines for accounts in a transaction must have at-least one whitespace
character at the start of the line (usually tab). To allow for accounts in
postings to contain spaces, at-least two (or more) whitespace characters are
required separate the value from the account.
.Pp
.Sh FORMAT
.Pp
Format of a transaction:
.Pp
.nf
.RS 4
YYYY/mm/dd <Payee>
	<Account:Name>   <Amount>
	<Account:Name>   <Amount>
.fi
.RE
.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
Example transactions:
.Pp
.nf
.RS 4
; Had ice cream
2021/06/27 Dairy Queen
	Assets:Wallet          -10.56   ; Used cash
	Expenses:Food           10.56

2021/06/27 Cineplex
	Liabilities:Credit Card:American Express
	Expenses:Entertainment:Movies           23.40
.fi
.RE
.Pp
.Sh ACCOUNTS
.Pp
Accounts use ":" as a separator for hierarchy. All sub-accounts combine up to
the top account.
.Pp
In the above two transactions, Expenses will be 43.96.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ledger 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Chris Howey"
.Aq chris@howey.me
